[Music]
how's it going everyone happy New Year
this video is going to be about breaker
blocks but before we get started if you
are looking to get access to all my PDFs
in one place make sure to join my free
Discord as they are all located in the
bottom educational section of that with
that being said let's hop into the PDF
and get started so we are going to learn
about breaker blocks we will first go
over a bullish breaker block and then a
bearish breaker block now a breaker
block is a Candlestick pattern in which
we form a low high lower low and higher
high so let's go over that so the first
thing we have is a low then a high is
created then we create a lower low and
then a higher high once we have the low
high lower low higher high then we have
a breaker block formation and then we
look for the series or single up close
candle here between the low and the high
marking that out that is our breaker
block and we'll look for a reaction
there to continue higher so let's hop
into the charts and go over an example
of this so in this example of a bullish
breaker block we are looking at gu on
the 5 minute chart now with a bullish
breaker we need a low high lower low
then higher high let's see when a low
forms so here we get a potential low
marking that out now we're looking for a
high here we form a swing high now
looking for a lower low you can see
we've created a lower low but we want to
see when that gets confirmed and put in
a swing
low so here we now have a lower low now
we're looking for a higher
high here we get that so now we have a
low high lower low higher high from here
I can Mark out the series of up Clos
candles here as our breaker
block now when price returns to this
area we should see a
reaction
here we retest the breaker
block and start to continue
higher we come back we sweep this low
into the breaker block the bodies are
still
respecting and we continue higher so
just to review we have a low a high
lower low then higher high that
formation forms a bullish breaker block
marking out the single or series of up
Clos candles here dragging it out this
is where I look for a reaction when
price retests this area now taking a
look back at the PDF what do I look for
in a bearish breaker block well I want
to see a high low higher high then lower
low from here I can look for the series
or single down Clos candle Mark that out
and then look for a reaction there let's
hop into another example of a bearish
breaker block so here we are on EU
5minute chart looking at an example of a
bearish breaker now if you notice we we
have a high right
here we now have a
low we now have a higher high so now
we're looking for a lower
low you can see that never forms so this
does not form a breaker now looking at
it this way we have a high low now we
have a higher high up here now if we
form a lower
low here we form a lower low so now we
have that bearish breaker pattern with a
high low higher high lower low so
marking out the series of down Clos
candles here I'd want to see price
retest this area and continue
lower and there we go so you can see
price retests the bearish breaker here
then gets displacement lower now one
thing that is important with breaker
blocks is I want to see displacement
paired with them
so for example I want to see a fair
value Gap over lined with them and that
is what forms the unicorn model the
unicorn model is where we have a bearish
breaker block aligned with a bearish
fair value Gap a bullish unicorn model
is when we have a bullish breaker
overlapping with a bullish fair value
Gap so let's go back into that example
we just went over and see if we can see
the unicorn model so rewinding this
price action you can see we have a
bearish breaker block right here and we
have displacement through this breaker
block you can see we create a fair value
Gap here now this leads me into my next
lesson which is stop losses so let's hop
back into the PDF before we finish this
example in placing a stop loss there are
two things I really look for I Look to
place it either below the bullish
breaker block and the fair value Gap
that is created there or at the swing
low or high so let's go back into the
example and show that so here if I was
going to look to take an entry there are
two things I can do I can either take an
entry at the start of the fair value Gap
letting it trade up into the breaker or
I can look to take my entry at the
breaker within the fair value Gap from
here I can look to have my stop loss
either on this swing high and if I was
going to Target to R I'd need my
takeprofit down there or I can look to
place it just above the breaker block
here and with that my 2 R would be right
here so let's see how this works
out you can see we hit two R pretty
quickly with that and if we go back to
our initial take profit using the swing
High it would have just missed our take
profit and then stopped us out so you
can see there are benefits and draw
Downs to each stop-loss placement
however that is up to you to decide what
works best for you let's take another
look at an example of a unicorn model so
if you notice here we have a low a high
a lower low so if we form a higher high
we will have a breaker
block and here we do form that higher
high now we can Mark out the series of
up Clos candles here as the breaker
block block and look for that to be
retested to move higher and what do we
have right here we have a fair value Gap
overlapping it so the one thing we have
to decide here is do I want to place my
entry on this breaker block here to get
filled with my stop below the breaker
low or do I want to wait and place it at
the fair value Gap here to get better
risk to reward now if I want to be in
this trade I will take this first entry
and allow my stop loss to let it trade
back into this area so if this is my
entry I'll look to Target to R
with my stop loss just below the breaker
low here we get filled
in and here we hit TP now if you notice
it never reached back into this fair
value Gap here so this is where it kind
of comes up to user discretion do you
want to wait for that fair value Gap
entry to get better risk to reward or do
you want to be in the trade and allow it
to trade back down before going higher
now the last thing with this example as
you can see how this stop loss makes
much more sense than looking to place my
stop loss at this low here if my my stop
loss was at this low I would need to
have a take profit all the way up here
to reach 2 R versus placing it just
below the breaker here I get my 2 R
right here now let's take a quick look
at the differences between a breaker
block and an order block a breaker block
is the series of up Clos candles here
and an order block is the series of down
Clos candles here with a breaker block I
Mark out the whole series of the candles
including the Wix while with an order
block I will just Mark out the opening
price in that series of up Clos candles
so in this example here the rectangle
would be the breaker block and the blue
line would be the order block they are
going to refer to price action at a
similar level however they are different
concepts so for example here my entry
for the breaker block would be right
here while the entry for the order block
would be right here so you can see both
would have worked out in this case the
order block did catch the almost very
low but they both have their uses it
really just comes down to personal
preference the next thing I want to
quickly discuss is using breaker blocks
alongside projection if you've seen my
projection video you know we can project
the manipulation leg to give us targets
so where is the manipulation leg in the
breaker well we have a low high lower
low higher high this leg down that
created the lower low is our
manipulation leg and I can project that
out to this high right here this gives
me levels to Target for example looking
for price to reach to the two to 2.5 so
in this case if I was to take an entry
on the breaker block with my stop just
below the low of the breaker block I
could look to Target either 2 R which I
would have taken right there or I can
look to Target these projections right
here giving a 4r
trade you can see how we hit those
projections
there we get a little retracement and
eventually go up and reach for the 4 to
-4.5 so now let's hop into a final
example where we will go top down
so in our first top down example we're
going to be looking at that same gu
trade on the 5 minute and showing the
higher time frame context so taking a
look at this price action what do you
see what I see here is we have a sweep
here at the low and then we have
displacement up now taking what we just
learned in this video what else do we
see we have a low high lower low and
then we create a higher high up here so
what are these up close candles right
here a breaker block so now we have a
breaker block overlapping with a fair
value Gap or a unicorn model on the
hourly chart and we just entered the
London Kill Zone let's hop down to the 5
minute chart so down here on the 5
minute chart now there is a little bit
more context to our first example what
do we see here well we see a low a high
we make a lower low into an important
level let's see if we get this placement
out we do get this placement out
creating a higher high so now we can
Mark out that breaker block now what
else do we have we have a fair value Gap
here so if I was worried about missing
this trade or I really wanted to get in
I could look to take my entry at the
start of that fair value Gap my stop at
this low and then I could either look to
Target to R which is right here or these
highs or I can also project out that
manipulation leg so projecting that out
let's say I'm looking for the -2
standard deviations now we're at a 3.62
r trade so let's see how this works
out and there we hit our takeprofit so
you saw this example prior but zooming
back out to the hourly chart now you can
see the context of why I'd be looking
for a trade here we have a higher time
frame PD array and simply put we're
moving from internal liquidity to
external liquidity on the hourly time
frame in this next example we'll be
taking a look at at a unicorn model on
the hourly time frame so you can see
here we have previous day low resting
right here which we created equal lows
so if this is not taken and we retrace
back into this previous range that is an
opportunity Too Short now what else do
we notice we see a swing High being ran
right here so we have a high low higher
high lower low so what are these down
Clos candles those are a breaker block
so marking those out what else do we
have overlapped with them a fair value
Gap so if I did not even want to go to a
lower time frame I could look to take an
entry right here I stop on this high and
then looking to Target equal lows so
let's see how that works out and we
would have gotten filled in right
there and there we would hit TP in our
last top down example we're starting on
the es 60-minute chart and if you notice
we have a fair value Gap that's been
respecting here and we have cells side
liquidity or cell stops resting here we
drop down on the hourly chart and we
sweep that close back inside so let's
drop down to the 5-minute chart to look
for a long setup so here on the 5 minute
chart what do we notice we have a low
high lower low so let's see if we create
a higher
high and there we create a higher high
so where is our breaker block this
series of up Clos candles here we also
have that aligned with a fair value Gap
here so looking to take an entry at the
fair value Gap my stop below the breaker
and targeting to R it would look
something like this so let's see how
this works
out so here we get
filled and there we get stopped out so
you can see in this example we swept
cells side liquidity after the open we
displaced through the breaker block we
created a unicorn model took an entry
and then it stopped us out losses are
inevitable in trading and that is why I
show this example I hope you found this
video beneficial if you did please
consider liking and subscribing and I'll
see you guys next
week